The President:
Hi everybody.
On Wednesday, I spoke about what
we need to do as a country
to build a better bargain for
the middle class --
to make sure everyone who works
hard has a chance to get ahead
in the 21st century economy.
You see, over the past
four and a half years,
America has fought its way back
from the worst recession
of our lifetimes.
We saved the auto industry, took
on a broken health care system,
invested in new American
technologies to reverse our
addiction to foreign oil, and
changed a tax code too skewed
in favor of the wealthiest at
the expense of working families.
As a result, our businesses have
created 7.2 million new jobs
over the past 40 months.
We produce more renewable
energy than ever,
and more natural
gas than anyone.
Health care costs are growing
at the slowest rate in 50 years.
Our deficits are falling at
the fastest rate in 60 years.
Thanks to the grit and
resilience of the American
people, we've cleared away the
rubble of crisis and begun
to lay a new foundation
for stronger,
more durable economic growth.
But as any middle-class
family will tell you,
we're not yet where
we need to be.
Trends that have been eroding
middle-class security for
decades -- technology that
makes some jobs obsolete,
global competition that
makes others moveable,
growing inequality and the
policies that perpetuate it --
all these things still
exist, and in some ways,
the recession made them worse.
Reversing these trends must be
Washington's highest priority.
It sure is mine.
But over the past couple
of years in particular,
Washington has taken
its eye off the ball.
An endless parade
of distractions,
political posturing and phony
scandals shift focus from what
needs to be done.
And as Washington prepares to
enter another budget debate,
the stakes could not be higher.
The choices we make now will
determine whether or not every
American has a fighting
chance in the 21st century.
If we don't make the investments
necessary to make America
a magnet for good jobs -- if we
don't invest in education,
and manufacturing, and research,
and our transportation and
information networks -- we might
as well hit the "pause" button
while the rest of the world
forges ahead
in a global economy.
And that's certainly not going
to fix what ails
the middle class.
Here's what will: a strategy
that builds on the cornerstones
of what it means to be
middle class in America,
and what it takes to work your
way into the middle class.
Good jobs that pay good wages.
An education that prepares our
children and our workers for the
global competition they'll face.
Homeownership that's based
on a solid foundation,
where buyers and lenders play
by the same set of rules.
Affordable health care that's
there for you when you get sick.
A secure retirement
even if you're not rich.
More chances for folks to earn
their way into the middle class
as long as they're
willing to work for it.
Over the next several weeks,
in cities and towns across
the country, I'll continue to
lay out my ideas in each
of these areas.
Because reversing the forces
that have conspired against the
middle class for decades will
require more than short-term
thinking; it will require a
long-term American strategy,
based on steady,
persistent effort.
I know there are members of both
parties who understand what's
at stake, and I'm open to ideas
from across the political
spectrum, as long as they meet
the test of strengthening
the prospects of
hard-working families.
But repealing Obamacare, gutting
critical investments in our
future, threatening to default
on the bills this country has
already racked up, or shutting
down the government just because
I'm for keeping it open -- none
of those thing add up
to an economic plan.
None of that will take this
country where it needs to go.
We can do this if
we work together.
It won't be easy, but if we
take a few bold steps -- and if
Washington is willing to shake
off its complacency and set
aside some of the slash-and-burn
partisanship we've seen
in recent years -- our economy
will keep getting stronger.
And as long as I have the
privilege of holding this
office, I will spend every
minute of every day doing
everything in my power to make
this economy work for working
Americans again; to build that
better bargain for the middle
class; to make sure that the
American Dream is something
that's achievable for
everybody -- not just today,
but for decades to come.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.